feat(documentation) 2022 Recap Newsletter (#5886)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/2023-01-10-jenkins-newsletter.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins December 2022 Newsletter"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2022-10-13-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png
links:
discourse: true
---

== December 2022

image:/images/post-images/2022-10-13-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png[Jenkins 2022 recap Newsletter]

> Welcome to the Jenkins Newsletter! This is a compilation of progress within the project, highlighted by Jenkins Special Interest Groups (SIGs) for 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the Jenkins Newsletter!
This is a compilation of progress within the project, highlighted by Jenkins Special Interest Groups (SIGs) for 2022.
```
just to ensure each sentence per line

Happy reading!

> Got Inspiration? We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations. Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.
```

== Highlights

* Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer.

== Governance Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

The Jenkins governance board thanks Ewelina Wilkosz and Gavin Mogan for their two years of service as board members.
We’re so glad to have talented people on the Jenkins governance board.

December 2022 brings two new members to the Jenkins governance board.

> We welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner of the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Munich University of Applied Sciences is a new member of the board.
> In his role as professor he tries to win new Jenkins contributors by letting students develop new features and test cases in their student projects and thesis.
> He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the Warnings Next Generation Plugin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner of the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Munich University of Applied Sciences as a new member of the board.
In his role as professor, he tries to win new Jenkins contributors by letting students develop new features and test cases in their student projects and thesis.
He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the Warnings Next Generation Plugin).
```
small suggestion for punctuation

image:/images/avatars/uhafner.jpg[image,width=230,height=230]

We also welcome Alexander Brandes as a new member of the board.

> Alexander is a Jenkins core maintainer, and the maintainer of the Job Configuration History and Ionicons API plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alexander is a Jenkins core maintainer and maintainer of the Job Configuration History and Ionicons API plugins.
```
small suggestion for clarity

He is a release team member and actively involved in the process of releasing Jenkins weekly and long term support (LTS) builds.
He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.

In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, Kevin Martens.
Kevin leads the Documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

We’re grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

== Security Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/Wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

Publication

> * 16 Security advisories (stable year over year)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* 16 Security advisories (stable year over year).
```

> ** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
```

> * Around 400 CVE published (more than all the previous years)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Around 400 CVEs published (more than all the previous years)
```
pluralization

> * Around 400 CVE published (more than all the previous years)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Around 400 CVE published (more than all the previous years).
```

> Day to day job of the security team

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Day to day job of the security team:
```

> * Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.
```

> ** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
```

> * Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022)
```
```suggestion
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
```

> * Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).
```

> We have more and more CVE with a name (e.g. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965]) to analyze and answer questions about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have more and more CVEs with a name (e.g. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965]) to analyze and answer questions about.
```

Delivery

> * General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message]).
```

> * Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling.
```

> == Infrastructure Update

Reviewer: ![Infrastructure](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211107813-aecd32a2-6404-42b5-8845-f352f228dd9e.png)
Same as security, this could be used in place of the normal header

Author: Done, thanks.

Contributed by: https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal]

== Platform Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

> * Platform modernization

Reviewer: ![platform-modernization](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211107920-d3d6038c-7e52-4ee8-8ea6-56d573d77bf8.png)
Same as previous section header suggestions

Author: Done, thanks.

> ** Require Java 11. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Require Java 11. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52.
```

> ** Fully supports Java 17

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Fully supports Java 17.
```

> ** Now more Java 11 installations than Java 8 installations of Jenkins core image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=403,height=275]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Now more Java 11 installations than Java 8 installations of Jenkins core image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=403,height=275].
```

> ** Migrate Linux installation packages from System V init to systemd

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Migrate Linux installation packages from System V init to systemd.
```

> ** Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates

Reviewer: ![Development-acceleration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211108056-9d49b5bc-9eb4-4953-9650-3243d7057e6f.png)
Perhaps this could be used here or after the container images

> ** Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates.
```

** Container images

> *** New platforms support (arm/v7, aarch64, etc.) and removal of ppc64le

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** New platforms support (arm/v7, aarch64, etc.) and removal of ppc64le.
```

> *** Very last, definitive version of the containers for JDK8

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Very last, definitive version of the containers for JDK8.
```

> *** Container image deprecation for the blueocean container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Container image deprecation for the blueocean container.
```

> *** Removed the deprecated install-plugins.sh script from Docker images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Removed the deprecated install-plugins.sh script from Docker images.
```

> *** Exit (and restart) lifecycle change in the Docker images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Exit (and restart) lifecycle change in the Docker images.
```

> ** ANTLR 2 to ANTLR 4 transition complete, Jenkins core compiles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** ANTLR 2 to ANTLR 4 transition complete, Jenkins core compiles.
```

*** Thanks to Alex Earl and Basil Crow!

> *** Included in Jenkins 2.376

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Included in Jenkins 2.376.
```

* Platform documentation

> ** Short https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Short https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers.
```

* Platform WIP

> ** Experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20.
```

> ** Experiments with Windows 2022

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Experiments with Windows 2022.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![Localization-simplification](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211109187-c63f8e02-7463-4026-a82f-6ea72bca397e.png)

CrowdIn for plugin localization
Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with Jenkins. This will make the plugin localization process much easier, allowing for any user to translate/localize plugin documentation.

```
We should highlight the usage and partnership of Crowdin for localization and Alex's work on that.

== User Experience Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

> Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 have included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others. Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 have included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.
Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
```
small punctuation update

> 

Reviewer: <img width="1422" alt="manage-jenkins" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211112861-ad12ec16-b1af-469b-bee0-69d2bd7215f2.png">
<img width="1415" alt="jenkins-dashboard" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211112862-8ebd4dd8-5a2f-4f15-bf4d-6696d564ecef.png">

it would also be good to have images that illustrate the modern look of jenkins

Author: Done, thanks.

== Documentation Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

This year, we saw documentation contributions from new and seasoned Jenkins users.
These contributions included blog posts, documentation additions and updates, documentation migration, and other improvements.
All of this combined has helped expand and empower the Jenkins community.

The Jenkins project saw 48 blog posts, submitted by 23 different authors, and overall 814 PRs were merged.
The contributions are a result of the community and collaboration, with various projects throughout the year such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.

> 

Reviewer: ![Jenkins-site-improvements](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211110471-48eaa0c7-5288-4872-962a-3b81a36cfeca.png)
same as previous suggestions of adding in the header image

Author: Done, thanks.

The Pipeline Steps reference guide is invaluable for developers when working in Jenkins and utilizing plugins.
The updates include search functionality, overall appearance, and a reduction in page load.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image5.png[image,width=624,height=388]

=== Algolia search

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image6.png[image,width=275,height=52]

The Jenkins site search has been updated to use the latest version of https://www.algolia.com/[Algolia].
We want to recognize and thank https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] for all of his work on this and Algolia for donating the search functionality.
The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Community and Stories sites

In 2022, the Jenkins project was also able to launch two new sites for community engagement and involvement.

* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] now provides a space for community discourse and communication.

* link:https://stories.jenkins.io/[stories.jenkins.io] is a site dedicated to sharing the experiences and stories of Jenkins users, developers, contributors, or anyone else that Jenkins has impacted. 
```
There should be a note of the community and stories sites as they launched in 2022 as well.

> == Advocacy & Outreach Update

Reviewer: ![oureatch-and-advocacy](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211108234-d7652c7d-06a9-40f3-adf8-febdca72ecf2.png)
Same as other header suggestions

Author: Done, thanks.

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].
** Watch https://youtu.be/k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] for potential GSoC candidates who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
* https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM’23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).

> * https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).
* New release leads
** Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.
This allows people the opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and maintainers on the ever evolving platform.
It also provides the community another avenue to make their voices heard and influence Jenkins development.
```
adding new release leads blurb under advocacy and outreach as this is an expansion of the community

The Pipeline Steps reference guide is invaluable for developers when working in Jenkins and utilizing plugins.
The updates include search functionality, overall appearance, and a reduction in page load.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image5.png[image,width=624,height=388]

=== Algolia search

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image6.png[image,width=275,height=52]

The Jenkins site search has been updated to use the latest version of https://www.algolia.com/[Algolia].
We want to recognize and thank https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] for all of his work on this and Algolia for donating the search functionality.
The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

> === Community and Stories sites

Author: Sure thing. 👍

In 2022, the Jenkins project was also able to launch two new sites for community engagement and involvement.

* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] now provides a space for community discourse and communication.

* link:https://stories.jenkins.io/[stories.jenkins.io] is a site dedicated to sharing the experiences and stories of Jenkins users, developers, contributors, or anyone else that Jenkins has impacted.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Additionally, Jenkins participated in the link:https://www.jenkins.io/sigs/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code], link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/04/11/She-Code-Africa-contributhon/[She Code Africa], and link:https://www.jenkins.io/events/hacktoberfest/[Hacktoberfest] projects.
This participation allowed us to create and connect with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improve several areas of Jenkins, and celebrate the successes of the community.
 ```
update to add projects to the docs update

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins December 2022 Newsletter"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2022-10-13-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png
links:
discourse: true
---

> == December 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not sure if this title is needed due to recap image following

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png[Jenkins 2022 recap Newsletter]

Welcome to the Jenkins Newsletter!
This is a compilation of progress within the project, highlighted by Jenkins Special Interest Groups (SIGs) for December 2022.

Happy reading!

Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

== Highlights

* Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer.
* Platform modernization
** Require Java 11. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52
** Fully supports Java 17

> ** Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
> * The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

* The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved.
```
just trying to get this list to display properly, in the preview there is a line break between the table layouts item and the pipeline steps item

> ** Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
> * The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

* The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved.
```
update for formatting

He is a release team member and actively involved in the process of releasing Jenkins weekly and long term support (LTS) builds.
He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.

In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, Kevin Martens.
Kevin leads the Documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

We’re grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/Wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.
```
something to introduce the security section

> Publication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Publication
```
make each lead in a title

* 16 Security advisories (stable year over year).

> ** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
> * Around 400 CVEs published (more than all the previous years).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).

* Around 400 CVEs published (more than all the previous years).
```
update for formatting

> Day to day job of the security team:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Day to day work of the security team:
```
same as above

* Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.

> ** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
> * Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.

* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
```
formatting update

* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).

We have more and more CVEs with a name (e.g. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965]) to analyze and answer questions about.

> Delivery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Delivery
```
same as above

* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message]).
* Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal]

2022 was an eventful year for the Jenkins Infrastructure team as well, leading to various updates and additions.

* Ci.jenkins.io now has:
** General availability for Windows 2022 server use.
** JDK19 availability for developers which provides faster testing and  edge testing.

> ** Kubernetes has been upgraded to version 1.23 which supports Azure, AWS, and DigitalOcean.
> * The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of repo.jenkins-ci.org to their new AWS platform which provides improved performances for artifact downloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Kubernetes has been upgraded to version 1.23 which supports Azure, AWS, and DigitalOcean.

* The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of repo.jenkins-ci.org to their new AWS platform which provides improved performances for artifact downloads.
```
same formatting update

* Download mirrors (get.jenkins.io):
** A new download mirror for Jenkins was added in Asia. We want to thank link:https://servanamanaged.com/[Servana] for providing the mirror!

> ** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
> Thank you for the service!
> * The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up some unused Azure resources, which led to $1,000 of monthly savings!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
Thank you for the service!

* The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up some unused Azure resources, which led to $1,000 of monthly savings!
```
same formatting suggestion as above

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Platform Modernization.png[Platform Modernization Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

> Several upgrades were made better modernize the Jenkins platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several upgrades were made to modernize the Jenkins platform.
```
updating wording here

> These include:
> * Java 11 is now required for Jenkins platform and plugin development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These include:

* Java 11 is now required for Jenkins platform and plugin development.
```
to get formatting correct on preview/view

** The support for ppc64le was removed.
** The final, definitive version of the containers for JDK8.
**  The blueocean container image was deprecated.
** The deprecated install-plugins.sh script was removed from Docker images.
** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" lifecycle changes in the Docker images.
* The ANTLR 2 grammars and code were upgraded to ANTLR 4, making it easier for Jenkins to read and parse through various programing languages.
This also means Jenkins core now compiles with more languages!
** Thanks to Alex Earl and Basil Crow for all of their hard work on completing this transition!
** This was also included in Jenkins weekly release 2.376.
* Platform documentation
** A short https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers and servlet container support was created.
* Platform in progress work:
** For further development, experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20 need to be performed.
** Further experimenting with Windows 2022 server need to be performed as well.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Localization simplification.png[Localization simplification Update]

> CrowdIn for plugin localization
> Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with Jenkins. This will make the plugin localization process much easier, allowing for any user to translate/localize plugin documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== CrowdIn for plugin localization
Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].
This will make the plugin localization process much easier, allowing for any user to translate/localize plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that are currently open and being worked on.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.
![jenkins-crowdin](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211586375-3d4dd4ef-0d58-40a9-94fa-5506b4fbccca.png)

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== UTF-8 encoding

The Jenkins project also updated how it reads jelly files, making the transition to using UTF-8.
This was possible once the transition to Java 11 completed.
By utilizing UTF-8, developers and users can build more reliably and have modern property files read correctly.
This also aligns Jenkins' ability to read different types of property files, provided the encoding is the same. 
```
Something to add the UTF-8 encoding update

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].
** Watch https://youtu.be/k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] for potential GSoC candidates who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
* https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM’23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).
* https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).
* New release leads
** Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.
This allows people the opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and maintainers on the ever evolving platform.
It also provides the community another avenue to make their voices heard and influence Jenkins development.

> * Finally, we want to thank our partners and sponsors over the year, as so much of this is possible due to their contributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Finally, we want to [thank our partners and sponsors](https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/11/24/jenkins-sponsor-appreciation/) over the year, as so much of this is possible due to their contributions.
```
just to add the sponsorship thanks post

** This was also included in Jenkins weekly release 2.376.
* Platform documentation
** A short https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers and servlet container support was created.
* Platform in progress work:
** For further development, experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20 need to be performed.
** Further experimenting with Windows 2022 server need to be performed as well.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Localization simplification.png[Localization simplification Update]

=== CrowdIn for plugin localization
Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].
This will make the plugin localization process much easier, allowing for any user to translate/localize plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that are currently open and being worked on.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

> ![jenkins-crowdin](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211586375-3d4dd4ef-0d58-40a9-94fa-5506b4fbccca.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins-crowdin.png
```
![jenkins-crowdin](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211620813-aefbf223-6bb7-4a16-8c46-da8818027c7b.png)

Reviewer: would it be possible to add this image to the folder and update the content here?

Author: Yes. 👍

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins December 2022 Newsletter"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2022-10-13-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png[Jenkins 2022 recap Newsletter]

Welcome to the Jenkins Newsletter!
This is a compilation of progress within the project, highlighted by Jenkins Special Interest Groups (SIGs) for December 2022.

Happy reading!

Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

> == Highlights
> 
> * Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer.
> * Platform modernization
> ** Require Java 11. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52
> ** Fully supports Java 17
> ** Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
> 
> * The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved.
> The updates include search functionality, overall appearance, and a reduction in page load.
> * General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message])
> * Jenkins in GSoC 2023 is accepting project ideas and volunteer mentors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Highlights

* Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes, and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer respectively.
* Platform modernization including:
** Requiring Java 11, with https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[build toolchain changes] arriving in parent pom 4.52.
** Fully supporting Java 17
** An new UI complete with updates such as icons, themes, and navigation menus.
* The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved in both functionality and appearance, reducing the page load.
* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[CodeQL].
* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 is accepting project ideas and volunteer mentors.
```
updated highlight section content and formatting

== Governance Update

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

> The Jenkins governance board thanks Ewelina Wilkosz and Gavin Mogan for their two years of service as board members.
> We’re so glad to have talented people on the Jenkins governance board.
> 
> December 2022 brings two new members to the Jenkins governance board.
> 
> We welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner of the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Munich University of Applied Sciences as a new member of the board.
> In his role as professor, he tries to win new Jenkins contributors by letting students develop new features and test cases in their student projects and thesis.
> He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the Warnings Next Generation Plugin).
> 
> image:/images/avatars/uhafner.jpg[image,width=230,height=230]
> 
> We also welcome Alexander Brandes as a new member of the board.
> Alexander is a Jenkins core maintainer and maintainer of the Job Configuration History and Ionicons API plugins.
> 
> He is a release team member and actively involved in the process of releasing Jenkins weekly and long term support (LTS) builds.
> He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.
> 
> In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, Kevin Martens.
> Kevin leads the Documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.
> 
> image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]
> 
> We’re grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:
> 
> * https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
> * https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
> * https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
> * https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins governance board thanks Ewelina Wilkosz and Gavin Mogan for their two years of service as board members.
We're so glad to have talented people serve on the Jenkins governance board.

December 2022 brings two new members to the Jenkins governance board.

We welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner of the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Munich University of Applied Sciences as a new member of the board.
In his role as professor, he tries to win new Jenkins contributors by letting students develop new features and test cases in their student projects and theses.
He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the Warnings Next Generation Plugin).

image:/images/avatars/uhafner.jpg[image,width=230,height=230]

We also welcome Alexander Brandes as a new member of the board.
Alexander is a maintainer for Jenkins core and the maintainer of the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/jobConfigHistory/[Job Configuration History] and link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/ionicons-api/[Ionicons API] plugins.

He is a release team member and actively involved in the process of releasing Jenkins weekly and long term support (LTS) builds.
He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.

In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, Kevin Martens.
Kevin leads the Documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

We're grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer
```
update to governance content

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/Wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

> The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
> The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.
> === Publication
> 
> * 16 Security advisories (stable year over year).
> ** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
> 
> * Around 400 CVEs published (more than all the previous years).
> 
> === Day to day work of the security team:
> 
> * Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.
> ** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
> 
> * Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
> * Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).
> 
> We have more and more CVEs with a name (e.g. https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965]) to analyze and answer questions about.
> 
> === Delivery
> 
> * General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message]).
> * Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.

=== Publication

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/security/advisories/#2022[16 Security advisories] (stable year over year).
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
* Around 400 CVEs published, which was more than all previous years.

=== Day to day:

* Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.
** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).

We have even more CVEs with a name such as link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

=== Delivery

* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message]).
* Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling.
```
updated content and formatting for security section

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal]

> 2022 was an eventful year for the Jenkins Infrastructure team as well, leading to various updates and additions.
> 
> * Ci.jenkins.io now has:
> ** General availability for Windows 2022 server use.
> ** JDK19 availability for developers which provides faster testing and  edge testing.
> ** Kubernetes has been upgraded to version 1.23 which supports Azure, AWS, and DigitalOcean.
> 
> * The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of repo.jenkins-ci.org to their new AWS platform which provides improved performances for artifact downloads.
> * Download mirrors (get.jenkins.io):
> ** A new download mirror for Jenkins was added in Asia. We want to thank link:https://servanamanaged.com/[Servana] for providing the mirror!
> ** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
> Thank you for the service!
> 
> * The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up some unused Azure resources, which led to $1,000 of monthly savings!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2022 was an eventful year for the Jenkins Infrastructure team as well, leading to various updates and additions.

* Ci.jenkins.io now has:
** General availability for Windows 2022 server use.
** JDK19 availability for developers, providing new functionalities and edge testing options.
** Kubernetes has been upgraded to version 1.23 to support Azure, AWS, and DigitalOcean.
* The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of link:https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/ui/[repo.jenkins-ci.org] to their new AWS platform which provides improved performance for artifact downloads.
* Download mirrors (link:https://get.jenkins.io/war/2.386/jenkins.war?mirrorstats[get.jenkins.io]):
** A new download mirror for Jenkins was added in Asia. We want to thank link:https://servanamanaged.com/[Servana] for providing the mirror!
** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
Thank you for the service!

* The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up unused Azure resources, leading to $1,000 of monthly savings!
```
update for infrastructure content and formatting

** The support for ppc64le was removed.
** The final, definitive version of the containers for JDK8.
**  The blueocean container image was deprecated.
** The deprecated install-plugins.sh script was removed from Docker images.
** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" lifecycle changes in the Docker images.
* The ANTLR 2 grammars and code were upgraded to ANTLR 4, making it easier for Jenkins to read and parse through various programing languages.
This also means Jenkins core now compiles with more languages!
** Thanks to Alex Earl and Basil Crow for all of their hard work on completing this transition!
** This was also included in Jenkins weekly release 2.376.
* Platform documentation
** A short https://www.jenkins.io/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers and servlet container support was created.
* Platform in progress work:
** For further development, experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20 need to be performed.
** Further experimenting with Windows 2022 server need to be performed as well.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Localization simplification.png[Localization simplification Update]

> === CrowdIn for plugin localization
> Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].
> This will make the plugin localization process much easier, allowing for any user to translate/localize plugin documentation.
> link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that are currently open and being worked on.
> It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== CrowdIn for plugin localization
Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].
This will make the plugin localization process easier, allowing for any user to contribute to localizing plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that have localization work currently open.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins Crowdin.png[Jenkins Crowdin]
```
update for crowdin section

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins Crowdin.png[Jenkins Crowdin]

=== UTF-8 encoding

The Jenkins project also updated how it reads jelly files, making the transition to using UTF-8.
This was possible once the transition to Java 11 completed.
By utilizing UTF-8, developers and users can build more reliably and have modern property files read correctly.
This also aligns Jenkins' ability to read different types of property files, provided the encoding is the same. 

> == User Experience Update

Reviewer: ```suggestion

== User Experience Update
```
ensure formatting is correct

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 have included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.
Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look.png[jenkins modern look]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look 2.png[jenkins modern look 2]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins io improvements.png[Jenkins io improvements Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

> This year, we saw documentation contributions from new and seasoned Jenkins users.
> These contributions included blog posts, documentation additions and updates, documentation migration, and other improvements.
> All of this combined has helped expand and empower the Jenkins community.
> 
> The Jenkins project saw 48 blog posts, submitted by 23 different authors, and overall 814 PRs were merged.
> The contributions are a result of the community and collaboration, with various projects throughout the year such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, the Jenkins project saw documentation contributions from new and seasoned Jenkins users.
These contributions included blog posts, documentation additions and updates, documentation migration, and other improvements.
All of this has helped expand and empower the Jenkins community.

Over the year, Jenkins project saw 48 blog posts, submitted by 23 different authors.
There was a total of 814 contributions throughout 2022.
These contributions are a result of the community, and collaboration with various projects throughout the year such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.
Our deepest gratitude and appreciation go out to all Jenkins contributors and the open-source community beyond.
```
update for jenkins docs info

=== Pipeline Steps Reference

> Thanks to the work of https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/vihaanthora/[Vihaan Thora], contributing via https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/10/10/pipeline-steps-improvement-gsoc-report/#project-specific-guidance[Google Summer of Code], the https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/[Pipeline steps] documentation has been improved.
> The Pipeline Steps reference guide is invaluable for developers when working in Jenkins and utilizing plugins.
> The updates include search functionality, overall appearance, and a reduction in page load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/vihaanthora/[Vihaan Thora], contributing via https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/10/10/pipeline-steps-improvement-gsoc-report/#project-specific-guidance[Google Summer of Code], the https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/[Pipeline Steps] reference page has been improved.
The Pipeline Steps reference page is invaluable for developers when working in Jenkins and utilizing plugins.
The updates include search functionality, UI improvements, and a reduction in page load.
```
update for pipeline steps content

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image5.png[image,width=624,height=388]

=== Algolia search

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image6.png[image,width=275,height=52]

The Jenkins site search has been updated to use the latest version of https://www.algolia.com/[Algolia].
We want to recognize and thank https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] for all of his work on this and Algolia for donating the search functionality.
The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

> image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Projects.png[Community and Stories site update]
> 
> In 2022, the Jenkins project was able to collaborate on and complete several other projects.
> This includes launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:
> 
> * link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] now provides a space for community discourse and communication.
> 
> * link:https://stories.jenkins.io/[stories.jenkins.io] is a site dedicated to sharing the experiences and stories of Jenkins users, developers, contributors, or anyone else that Jenkins has impacted.
> 
> Additionally, Jenkins participated in the link:https://www.jenkins.io/sigs/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code], link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/04/11/She-Code-Africa-contributhon/[She Code Africa], and link:https://www.jenkins.io/events/hacktoberfest/[Hacktoberfest] projects.
> This participation allowed us to create and connect with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improve several areas of Jenkins, and celebrate the successes of the community.
> image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]
> 
> Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]
> 
> * Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].
> ** Watch https://youtu.be/k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] for potential GSoC candidates who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
> * https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM’23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).
> * https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).
> * New release leads
> ** Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.
> This allows people the opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and maintainers on the ever evolving platform.
> It also provides the community another avenue to make their voices heard and influence Jenkins development.
> * Finally, we want to https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/11/24/jenkins-sponsor-appreciation/[thank our partners and sponsors] over the year, as so much of this is possible due to their contributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

In 2022, the Jenkins project was able to collaborate on and complete several projects.
This includes launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:

* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] now provides a space for community discourse and communication.
* link:https://stories.jenkins.io/[stories.jenkins.io] is a site dedicated to sharing the experiences and stories of Jenkins users, developers, and contributors that Jenkins has impacted.

Jenkins was also able to expand by adding new release leads.

* Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.
** This allows users the opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and maintainers on the ever evolving platform.
This provides the Jenkins community another avenue to make their voices heard and influence Jenkins' future.

Throughout the year, the Jenkins project participated in:

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/sigs/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code]
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/04/11/She-Code-Africa-contributhon/[She Code Africa]
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/events/hacktoberfest/[Hacktoberfest]
** This participation allowed us to collaborate with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improve several areas of Jenkins, and celebrate the successes of the community!

The Jenkins project is also excited to share what's to come in 2023:

* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].
** Watch https://youtu.be/k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] for potential GSoC candidates who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
* https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM'23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).
* https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).

Finally, we want to https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/11/24/jenkins-sponsor-appreciation/[thank our partners and sponsors] over the year, as so much of this is possible due to their contributions.
```
update for advocacy and outreach content/formatting

---
layout: post

> title: "Jenkins December 2022 Newsletter"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Jenkins 2022 Recap"
```

tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
opengraph:

> image: /images/post-images/2022-10-13-jenkins-newsletter/centered-newsletter.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image: /images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png
```

links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png[Jenkins 2022 recap Newsletter]

> Welcome to the Jenkins Newsletter!
> This is a compilation of progress within the project, highlighted by Jenkins Special Interest Groups (SIGs) for 2022.
> 
> Happy reading!
> 
> Got Inspiration?
> We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
> Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2022 was a fruitful year for Jenkins!
Across the Jenkins project, we experienced growth and strong contributions.
We want to share deep gratitude to the corporate sponsorships and individual contributions, as this made it possible to take Jenkins to the next level.
We also look forward to welcoming new friends to collaborate with us in working together to make Jenkins better. 
There's still a lot to be done within the project, and in 2023 we plan on integrating many more improvements in while sustaining a diversified, inclusive, and welcoming community.

Happy reading!

Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.
```
adding updated intro paragraph from @alyssat

Happy reading!

Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

== Highlights

* Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes, and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer respectively.
* Platform modernization including:
** Requiring Java 11, with https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[build toolchain changes] arriving in parent pom 4.52.
** Fully supporting Java 17
** An new UI complete with updates such as icons, themes, and navigation menus.
* The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved in both functionality and appearance, reducing the page load.
* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[CodeQL].
* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 is accepting project ideas and volunteer mentors.

> == Governance Update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Governance](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/211855180-394eba6f-cc0a-41bb-9d16-93ece5a0579e.png)
```
would it be possible to add this image and use it for the Governance header?

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

We're grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/Wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.

=== Publication

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/security/advisories/#2022[16 Security advisories] (stable year over year).
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
* Around 400 CVEs published, which was more than all previous years.

=== Day to day:

> * Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.

Reviewer: SECURITY is the ticket prefix that the Jenkins security team uses, like we have DOCS or INFRA, so it's more to specify that the SECURITY jira tickets are what's been handled. @MarkEWaite what would be the best option in this case?

I will definitely update the "around" to "approximately" though!

** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).

We have even more CVEs with a name such as link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

=== Delivery

* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in CodeQL (https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[message]).
* Improved tooling for the SECURITY tickets handling.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/dduportal[Damien Duportal]

2022 was an eventful year for the Jenkins Infrastructure team as well, leading to various updates and additions.

* Ci.jenkins.io now has:
** General availability for Windows 2022 server use.
** JDK19 availability for developers, providing new functionalities and edge testing options.

> ** Kubernetes has been upgraded to version 1.23 to support Azure, AWS, and DigitalOcean.

Reviewer: Unfortunately I do not believe those macros exist for the Jenkins repos, so they do have to be included regularly at this time.

* The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of link:https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/ui/[repo.jenkins-ci.org] to their new AWS platform which provides improved performance for artifact downloads.
* Download mirrors (link:https://get.jenkins.io/war/2.386/jenkins.war?mirrorstats[get.jenkins.io]):
** A new download mirror for Jenkins was added in Asia. We want to thank link:https://servanamanaged.com/[Servana] for providing the mirror!
** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
Thank you for the service!

* The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up unused Azure resources, leading to $1,000 of monthly savings!

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Platform Modernization.png[Platform Modernization Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

Several upgrades were made to modernize the Jenkins platform.
These include:

* Java 11 is now required for Jenkins platform and plugin development.
** https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52.

> ** Java 11 provides a better baseline to work from, ensureing that the benefits, such as performance and memory improvements, are felt across the platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Java 11 provides a better baseline to work from, ensuring that the benefits, such as performance and memory improvements, are felt across the platform.
```

** Jenkins now has more Java 11 installations than Java 8 installations of Jenkins core!
+
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=403,height=275]
* Jenkins now fully supports Java 17.

> ** Previously Java 17 had been available only in a preview mode, but with the LTS release of link:https://www.jenkins.io/changelog-stable/#v2.361.1[2.361.1], Java 17 functionality is fully available in Jenkins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Previously, Java 17 was only available in a preview mode, but with the LTS release of link:https://www.jenkins.io/changelog-stable/#v2.361.1[2.361.1], Java 17 functionality is fully available in Jenkins.
```

* Migration of Linux installation packages from System V init to `systemd`.

> ** This migration has been requested by users since 2017.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Users have requested this migration since 2017.
```

The link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/#motivation[goals of the migration] were achieved; to provide unification of service management implementation and better integration between Jenkins core and service management framework.
** Thanks to Basil Crow for his work on the migration. 
* Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates providing better testing, processing, and performance across Jenkins.
* Container image updates:

> ** We added new platform support such as arm/v7 and aarch64. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Added new platform support, such as arm/v7 and aarch64. 
```

> ** Support for ppc64le was removed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Removed support for ppc64le.
```

> ** The final, definitive version of the JDK8 containers were released.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Released the final, definitive version of the JDK8 containers.
```

> ** The blueocean container image was deprecated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Deprecated the blueocean container image.
```

> ** The deprecated install-plugins.sh script was removed from Docker images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Removed the deprecated install-plugins.sh script from Docker images.
```

The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/10/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

In 2022, the Jenkins project was able to collaborate on and complete several projects.
This includes launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:

* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] now provides a space for community discourse and communication.
* link:https://stories.jenkins.io/[stories.jenkins.io] is a site dedicated to sharing the experiences and stories of Jenkins users, developers, and contributors that Jenkins has impacted.

Jenkins was also able to expand by adding new release leads.

* Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.

> ** This allows users the opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and maintainers on the ever evolving platform.
> This provides the Jenkins community another avenue to make their voices heard and influence Jenkins' future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** This creates an open opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and provides the community another avenue to engage and contribute to Jenkins.
```
updating content for better syntax

Throughout the year, the Jenkins project participated in:

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/sigs/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code]
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/04/11/She-Code-Africa-contributhon/[She Code Africa]
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/events/hacktoberfest/[Hacktoberfest]

> ** This participation allowed us to collaborate with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improve several areas of Jenkins, and celebrate the successes of the community!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This participation allowed us to collaborate with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improve several areas of Jenkins, and celebrate the successes of the community!
```
removing bullets

The Jenkins project is also excited to share what's to come in 2023:

* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].

> ** Watch https://youtu.be/k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] for potential GSoC candidates who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] is a great resource for potential GSoC candidates, who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
```
updating content for link usage

* https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM'23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).
* https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).

> Finally, we want to https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/11/24/jenkins-sponsor-appreciation/[thank our partners and sponsors] over the year, as so much of this is possible due to their contributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we want to https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/11/24/jenkins-sponsor-appreciation/[thank our partners and sponsors] over the year, as so much of this is possible with the help of their contributions.
```
updated word usage
